when making holiday dinner there are a
few essential size that you need on that
table and one of them is a bowl of
creamy mashed potatoes now if there's
anybody showing you how to make mashed
potatoes you want it to be this Irish
guy now we don't want any lumps in these
so I'm gonna show you how with a couple
of easy steps we can make the perfect
potatoes every time first off we need to
choose the right potato for the job
today I'm gonna go with the Yukon Gold
because it has a buttery texture and
it's perfect for mashing since these are
for a holiday celebration we want them
to be extra smooth and creamy so we're
actually gonna peel these first before
we start so I want to cut these potatoes
into even slices economists say people
make is that they cut the potatoes
unevenly this is the number one reason
for lumpy potato a good indicator to
know how to take to cut them use the
width of your finger and don't be afraid
to compare each size to one another all
right rolling I'm gonna add them to the
pot last few here we're gonna fill it up
with cold water and then we're gonna
cook them off until they're fork-tender
so we're gonna pop these on the stove
put the lid on we're gonna bring them up
to a boil for about 20 to 30 minutes all
right so it looks like the potatoes are
done so I'm just gonna turn off the heat
we're just gonna drain them and when you
can all that water off it looks good
so now to ensure we get all of the lumps
out of these bad boys we're gonna use a
ricer so we're just going to spoon
potatoes into the ricer 3/4 full push
them right through like that oh that
looks fantastic
now using this riser it will ensure that
we get that nice creamy texture that we
want
that's awesome look at that now I'm just
gonna heat up my milk and butter and
we're gonna add that to the potatoes cuz
you really want that nice creamy texture
that I was talking about earlier so we
got them now good tip to remember is
never add cold milk to your potatoes
because it will affect the texture of
them so we're gonna add in or hop back
here with the butter look at that it's
just coming together so nicely it's like
a fluffy already so alright here's my
secret ingredient some creme fraiche and
that will give it some extra richness
and creaminess
now if you don't have any creme fraiche
sour cream is a great substitute to
[Music]
season it up with some salt and pepper
just combine that I'm now finally I'm
gonna add in my choice
look at that texture it's exactly how I
wanted me to turn out okay I gotta taste
these there is no holiday dish that
these match players won't go back there
after iterations
[Music]